In this demo, we are going to connect our client application to
the back end API that we created previously.
You'll find the source code for the client application in the exercise files.
This is a very large JavaScript application,
so it's going to be straightforward, and you don't have to
know any JavaScript frameworks like Angular, Vue, or React to
complete this course successfully.
First, let's start by installing the npm packages.
Once the packages are installed,
we start the application using the npm run dev
command to run it on our local machine.
This is an application without requesting any data from our API.
Now, let's navigate back to the code and implement our logic.
All the logic that we are going to implement can be found on the index.ts files.
We are going to only implement the areas for querying
and mutating data through AppSync.
The rest of the code is basic even acquiring any updates,
which you should not concern yourself with.
We'll start importing the AWSAppSyncClient from the aws‑appsync library.
Next, let's create a new instance of the AWSAppSyncClient.
We need to specify three parameters for our AppSync client, the URL of our API,
the region, and authentication.
We can get this information from the settings page of our API in the
AppSync console. Here, on the API details, we have the API URL, API ID,
and the Primary auth mode, which is API KEY.
Let's get these values and enter them in our code.
The region, in my case, is us‑east‑1.
Make sure you enter the correct region. You can also find the region in the
API URL. The authentication mode for now is going to be API_KEY, and then we
need to specify the API_KEY from the API settings details. Now that we have
an instance of our AppSync client, let's start querying data.
The AppSync client expects GraphQL queries. We need to pass the same queries
that were defined in the schema of our API. Back in our API, if we now get a
little schema definition, here in the queries,
we are going to use the listGlobomanticsTasks query. In the src folder
of the project, there is a folder called graphql,
which has two files, Mutations.ts and Queries.ts.
In the Queries.ts file,
we are exporting the GetAllQuery object. Here, we are exporting the
listGlobomanticsTasks query. And there's an output.
It returns items with an id, title, date, and description.
We are using the graphql‑tag library, so we get the string query and then parse
it in the graphql object and then export it as GetAllQuery.
Now,
let's navigate back to the index.ts file and import this query.
Here, we are doing import  from
"./graphql/Queries.ts" file. Now, in the loadTasks function, we are
going to query the tasks and render them in the UI.
First,
let's make an instance of the GetAllQuery. Now, using the AWS AppSync client,
we can do client.query, and then specify the query as a parameter, and then
here, we are going to specify the fetchPolicy as well to be network‑only. The
network‑only policy will tell it to always make a query to the GraphQL API and
never use the local cache.
We'll get into caching later on in the course. The result of the query will
have a data property, inside which there will be a listGlobomanticsTasks
property, and then the items that we want inside.
We are assigning the items into the tasks property,
which is a global variable,
and then we can use them later for updating or deleting them. And as a
final step, we'll render them in the UI since we are not using any
library like React or Angular. We are going to use a renderTasks
function, and then pass in our tasks.
Now, let's save the changes and test this out.
And as we can see, we have two tasks listed here.
Both their titles is Hello, world! since we used a query editor
to create two tasks when we were testing.
If we look at the Network tab, we can see the data that's come in. We have
a property for data and then the listGlobomanticsTasks,
which has the items inside, and then we have two items. And each
item has a date, description, id, and the title.
Let's try to change our query and remove the date property. Here in
the queries, we just need to remove the date.
Let's save the changes and navigate to our application. This time around,
if we look at the data, the items do not have a date property, as we only
requested the id, title, and description.
Using GraphQL is very convenient for querying only the data that we need,
allowing for using the same API for different applications. We'll look at data mutations in the next clip.